So with this new technique, I'm about to show you, I need to just point out one thing the H2 database
apparently doesn't fully support it in one form.
So we've been doing all of our sequel so far in daily B.C. using prepared statements, which are generally
the most highly recommended approach to doing sequel because they can be pre compiled and they can help
us avoid SQL injection attacks.
Unfortunately, it looks like the current versions of H2 don't support using a prepared statement for
this next technique that I want to show you, though.
So we'll do this next one using a standard statement and probably should be showing you that anyway.
OK.
So what we're going to want to do here is to create a connection like usual.
But instead of doing a prepared statement now, we'll just create a regular statement.
Like so and then we still have to deal with the exception that can be thrown.
So as usual, I will put my cursor at the end of this line and do an option command T and tell it to
surround with a try catch as usual.
All right, then I'll move my mouse, my cursor back up here, and then we will capture the output of
that, which will be now instead of a prepared statement.
It'll just be a statement.
And I will just call this s t in tea.
All right.
Now, the technique that I want to show you is the fact that we can actually delete multiple records
from a table all in one go and we can do this by utilizing some skill that I didn't teach you at the
beginning of this module.
So let me show you that now so we can reference the statement and then we can choose to execute an update
right here.
So instead of defining our sequel in the prepared statement, like we've been doing up here, like on
Line 100, right, we can do it in the Execute Update method call here.
And by the way, I mean, we could do this with the prepared statement as well.
The prepared statement has an execute update method as well, and we could pass in SQL right there too.
However, it would not be as beneficial as defining our sequel when we create the prepared statement,
because the SQL down here in the Execute update doesn't get an opportunity to be pre compiled.
OK, so down here we'll call execute update and then we will start typing in some sequel.
So the sequel to delete a record from the database, we did learn this part is normally just delete
from and then the name of the table delete from people where now the way that we learned how to do this
in scroll SQL client was to do something like delete from people where ID equals whatever right a number
right.
However, if you want to delete multiple records by IED instead of doing where ID equals and then binding
a parameter or something like that, what we can do instead is use another keyword in followed by parentheses.
And then in these parentheses, we can specify IDs like that and you can specify quite a number of IDs.
Now, I think every database will have a different limit as to how many parameters you can specify inside
of an end clause.
I want to say, generally speaking, the Oracle database, for example, which is a very common database
that you will encounter in companies I believe has a limit of 1024 parameters that we that we can pass
in 1024 or 1023, maybe parameters that can be passed in to an in clause to give you some idea of what
some of the limitations could be when you're using it in class.
So you can't just pass in an infinite number of parameters here, but it's a relatively large number
and there are actually additional techniques to get past those limitations if you need them, but they
get much more involved.
All right.
So this is the format that we would need now because we're not using a prepared statement, though we
would need to actually build this sequel with the parameters that we will be needing to pass in all
at once.
So in other words, we can't do something like.
Question mark, question mark, question mark, question mark, like that and then bind those question
marks to parameters after the fact, the way that we were doing with a prepared statement, OK?
And so we would potentially be opening ourselves up to SQL injection with this technique.
But I will go ahead and show it anyway so that we can make this work.
All right.
So this is what we need, right?
We need this format here.
However, now obviously, we also cannot just hard code a certain number of question marks because we
don't know at the time that we're coding this.
How many people could be passed into this delete method, right?
It's dynamic.
So what we ideally want to be able to do here is to generate this part of the sequel string dynamically
at the time when this delete method is being called right.
So we'll need to know how many people are being passed in and then generate that many question marks
and then generate the actual IDs that would go into this end clause.
That's what we need to do.
OK.
So what we're going to do real quick here.
Let me just put a semicolon on that.
We're going to jump back over into the test class and we're going to write a little experimental test
so that I can show you and remind you of how we can go from an array of people to a comma delimited
string of their IDs, because that's what we need.
In fact, let me let me revise this a little bit.
So when we're done, it should look something like.
You know, with these numbers being random IDs of the various people that got passed, then OK, so
that's what we want to generate with this input.
So let's see how we can do that.
So we're going to jump back over to the test class here, and I'm going to create temporary throwaway
test just to experiment with.
OK, so I will call this test experiment and I'm going to get rid of this when I'm done teaching you
how to do this.
All right.
So let's just create a few throwaway people instances first.
OK, so I'll do something like person.
P1 equals new person.
Now for this, we're going to need the IDs.
That's important.
So I'm just going to make up an ID here.
And for the rest of this, I don't even need the rest.
So I'm just going to pass in nulls for everything else.
OK.
Oh, and the ID needs to be along, so I will put an L on the end of it.
All right.
And then I'm going to duplicate that a few times, and then I'm going to change these numbers.
P2, P3, PS4, PS5, like so and then I will change these IDs as well.
Four and five like that.
OK, now I'm going to put all of those people inside of an array.
So one way I can do that is to maybe call a race as list.
And then I can just reference all of these like this.
All right, so now that's going to give me a list, not an array, but then I can turn right back around
and call to array.
Now I've got a couple options here.
I can call the plain old two array here, which returns an array of type object.
But if I want an array that is of the actual type person, then I can call this second version here
and then I can just give it a kind of like a template of a person.
I'll show you this.
What's new?
Person array and then just empty, curly braces there.
OK.
And now I can capture that.
And so now I've got a people array.
Now the reason I'm creating this people array is because if we jump back over here, that's essentially
what we're passing in here.
It's it's a virus, but I told you a virus is basically just a shorthand for an array.
OK, and I want to simulate what we could do down in this code to go from this to something that looks
like this.
So I'm starting with a an array to represent the virus, OK?
All right, jumping back over to the test, so there's our starting point right there.
And just as a quick reminder here, I will just show what we're trying to get to.
So we want something like the lead from person lair IED and.
10, 20, 30, 40, 50.
OK, we want something that's going to look like that.
Now I don't really care about this part.
It's really this part that that we're really caring about here.
OK.
All right.
So now we've got an array of the people.
And so now I think what we can do is simply use the Streams API to go from this array of people to a
string representation of their IDs delimited by commas.
We can use the Streams API to do this, and I'm going to just blow through this quickly, but I will
explain as I go.
First off, do you want to take a moment to see if you can figure this out for yourself?
Because I have taught you all of the techniques you need to know to to pull this off?
So why don't you have a moment if you want?
OK.
Did you get it all right, so if you didn't, don't worry about it.
Here we go.
All right.
So first, we've got an array of people and I want to use the Streams API and you can't use the Streams
API directly on an array.
So I want to convert this array first into a collection, so we need to convert this array of person
instances to a stream of persons.
OK.
And because it's an array, we can use the arrays that stream method and then we can pass in our array
right there.
And that method arrays that streams, takes an array of some type and converts it into a stream of that
type.
So we've got an array of person and we will now get a stream of persons, right?
All right.
So now we've got a stream.
OK.
And so we've got all these people here and now we want to go from these people to their IDs.
OK, so we want to convert each person object into just their ID.
So when you're doing conversions, you're using the streams, APIs, map function.
Right?
So we'll call map and we want to simply get the ID right.
That's how we can convert a person to an ID.
Now you could be explicit and do a lambda expression and then say, Peter, get I.D. like so right,
you could do all of that.
But we can also just use the method reference shorthand person, call and call and get I.D. That's the
same thing, right?
And now we've gone from a stream of person objects to a stream of longs, which are the IDs, OK?
But ultimately, we want these IDs to be comedy limited in a string.
OK.
A string of text.
Right.
So now we need to convert this stream of long IDs into a stream of text IDs.
OK.
So here's another conversion.
So again, we can do another map and to convert a long to a string.
We can do.
We can do string value of OK.
And so just a quick reminder here.
What that's doing is string value of.
And then we're passing in a long like 20.
And so then that's just spitting out a string representation of the of the number 20.
OK, so that's converting a long to a string.
OK.
And we're just calling the value of method using a method reference instead of explicitly like this.
All right, so now we've gone from a stream of people to a stream of long IDs to a stream of text IDs.
And now we just need to get all of those individual text ideas and put commas between them in one string.
OK, so what we're going to do here is we're going to collect.
We're going to collect all of those together and then we're going to join them by commas.
And so we'll call the collect method of the streams API.
And then from here we can use one of the many, many methods on the collector's class.
And the method that I'm referring to here is joining, but I won't actually prepend it with the name
of the class.
I will simply because it's actually a static method, so I will simply refer to it using the joining
method.
Like so and you may need to import that.
So notice I'm putting my cursor right here and then I'm going to do an option return to let the ADC
or what is it all all, to return to let the ADC perform the static import for the collectors joining
method.
Or you could write out the whole collectors that joining as well if you for some strange reason don't
want to do the static import.
All right.
So this method now will collect all of the text IDs and it will allow us to join them using some string
and so I can specify what string I want and I just want a comma.
So in other words, I'm saying collect all these numbers, which are string representations of numbers,
though, and then join them up using commas like so.
And now the output of this will be just a string.
So if I put a semicolon here and then I collect the output of this, I will call this Ides i.d.s OK.
And that's a string.
So first off, let's just print that out, ides like sir.
So if I run this method now?
There we go, 10 common, 20 common 30, 40, 50, right, with all those coming, so that's really
what we want right there.
OK, so this is just to prove that this is a way that we could go from having an array of people to
a comma delimited, delimited string of just their IDs.
OK, so that's what we're doing here.
And we basically did it in one line, essentially, because really, this is kind of like the pertinent
bit right here.
OK.
In fact, I think I will go ahead and just grab this whole line.
All right.
And so now we'll jump back over to the delete method implementation here.
And I think I will start off by just pasting this right here and in fact looks like it works right away
because this variable here was already named the same thing, people.
Right?
All right.
So then that should be the exact same IDs that we need now down here.
What I will do is instead of hard coding this like I'm doing there, I'm going to get rid of the just
those numbers.
I'm going to leave the parentheses there and I'm going to make up what's called a named parameter.
OK.
So I want to be able to pass in the I.D. someone and just create a fake named parameter here by using
a colon IDs.
This is a format that you'll see frequently in a lot of frameworks that do support SQL named parameters.
Now what we're doing here doesn't really support it, but I'm going to just kind of fake make a poor
man's version of that.
And now what I can do is at the end of this string here, I can use the replace method and I can tell
replace to replace this colon IDs with the actual IDs string.
OK.
Like so.
All right.
So what that's going to end up doing then, is it's literally, literally going to replace this bit
of text here with the output that comes from this IDs string right here, which we already know is going
to be some common delimited list of IDs, right?
And so that way, we don't need to know at this moment how many people are going to be passed in and
what their IDs will be that will all get replaced for us automatically at runtime.
OK.
All right.
And now this execute update method does return the number of rows that were affected.
And so for debugging purposes, we could go ahead and capture that.
And I don't know what I was calling this before something like affected record loops records.
I was probably calling count.
Yeah, I guess I should do that count.
OK.
And then I can print that out.
Affected record count.
All right.
So that's just for debugging purposes.
If I want to just confirm somehow how many records actually got deleted or updated or changed in some
way?
Right?
All right.
So now I think we are ready to jump back over to our test, and I think we can run this test now.
OK, so let's see what we get now.
Ooh, that looks good.
Yeah.
So we had there are two records that were affected.
Right.
I didn't explicitly label that, but I know I know that that's what that two means.
OK, so that looks like it worked just fine.
OK.
So let me just reiterate something here.
We'll jump back over to this delete method.
So I'll just reiterate the fact that the advantage of this approach versus the four loop that we did
initially where we were just delegating down to the original delete method is that we are now able to
have the database delete multiple records from that table basically simultaneously.
OK, now how it does it internally, I do not know, but from our database connection perspective,
we are simply making one command to tell it all the IDs of the records that we want it to delete, and
then it handles the rest for us all in one call, rather than having to make multiple round trip calls,
which is definitely much less efficient in the long run, especially if you need to delete lots of records.
So with that, I'm going to go ahead and in this lesson, and I'll see you in the next one.